In our previous video we talked about updating our data and use put requests for that in this video.
We're going to be talking about the last operation of crowd operations and which is the.
And delete delete and entity to delete some data from our database.
We're going to be implementing a delete and point and with that delete and point we're going to be expecting
an idea again with that ID.
We're going to go to our repository to our database.
And then first David Deda with that ID after we find the anti-Tea with that ID.
We're going to simply delete it.
All right.
So let's start by adding our method.
I'm going to say public and this time we're not going to return anything.
So we're simply going to say we need an elite product.
Let's take care of our request mapping and in our requests mapping we're again going to xpect and ID
and our method of course is going to be delete all right.
Since we're simply taking an ID and deleting the entity with that human ID we're not going to be expecting
any requests body or anything about consuming data just as we did here.
So we're going to say we're expecting a path we're able and that path variable is going to be named
as ID and of course its type of a string.
All right.
In our math it what we're going to do is we're first going to go to our repository and try to find that
product that entity within our database.
So let's say product found product and then product repository and find one and find one method.
Again we're going to ask the repository with the idea that we pursued in the path where you will.
All right after we find the product within our database and check if it's not know then we're going
to go to our repository and simply delete it.
To do that I'm going to call our repository method and that's going to be product repository and delete
in the sleep method.
I'm simply going to provide the product that I'm going to delete.
All right.
That's where basic delete method with the API is and let's test out our method to do that.
I'm going to run our application
application is starting now
and start it.
And as you can see we have mapped delete methhead right here in the console.
So spring recognize our End Point and map the endpoint for us.
So before we actually make a request we should first go to our database our age to console and get the
idea of our sort of product.
So let's do that now and open up the Firefox
and I'm going to go to my age to console and let's refresh the session
and I'm connecting to my database and I'm selecting the product.
All right we have this product with this ID.
So I'm going to be making a request with this idea so I'm going to delete this data.
And after we finish our request we're not going to see any data in our table.
So let's switch back to Arrius client and an arrest flight.
Now we're going to be making a delete request an endless delete request.
We're going to be providing ID just that we copied the ID and the previous parcel the request is going
to be same because if we switch back to our ID you'll notice that we only provided ID as the latter
part of the request.
So previous part of the request is going to be provided as the slash IPs slash products and slash the
ID that we provide.
All right.
Let's switch back to rest client and we can now make the request put before we make the request.
We can get rid of the Content-Type header in our request so I'm going to click this close button and
here we go.
And of course we're not going to need a request but just as we did with the put request in the previous
video so I'm getting rid of that too.
And now I'm ready to make the request so I'll send a request now.
Here we go.
We have 200.
As the response.
And you should notice now we don't have any content in response because we simply said in our code that
we're not returning anything.
So our method was wanted and in our response let's take out the response body and response highlights.
And as you notice we don't have anything about the response in our request so to verify if we could
delete the object.
Let's go to our two console and see what's going on there.
So I'm going to rerun our query again and here we go.
We don't have any entity left in our database because we simply deleted our entity with the request
of HTP of spring rest.
All right that's a very basic and very simple delete request.
With spring rest of course we can extend these examples we can provide much more detailed request types
with our entities with our controllers in the upcoming videos.
We're going to dig into more of the rest API development with spring.
But before we do that let's take a look at the elements of arrest API in our next video where I'm going
to explain all the elements that we use within our controller.